:meta:

# Rituals Introduction

I wanted to discuss a concept Mix brought up in the initial thread that
inspired this #community-gardening channe, but which I have not seen explicitly
discussed much since.

And that concept is **Rituals**.  I think rituals are a necessary and powerful
way to keep communities healthy, and to magnify and manifest our intentions.
There's tremendous energy for us, then, if we openly practice rituals for
Scuttlebutt.

(side note: I am too intertwingled with magic to be able to talk about this all
in non-magical terms---so I'ma just lean into what I know.  If it sounds `woo
woo`...I mean, it is...but it's also concretely real to me and I hope I can
communicate why.)

# Background

Rituals are ceremonial practices to help initiate and power an intention.  One
important aspect of rituals is _time_.  You move through a ritual, from a known
beginning to a planned-for end, because rituals are not intended to be static.
Part of this is so we can fully remember that _we_ are not meant to be static
either. 

In a certain sense, our whole world is in a cycle of rituals: the rituals of
Spring, Summer, Fall, and Winter.  The world moves through its seasons in a set
rhythmic order, an all-encompassing performance of birth, flourish, harvest,
and death.  We then place our own rituals in the high points of each season, to
echo and honor the cycles we see. We make sense of the world through making
sense of this cycle of rebirth. 

With the Tarot, it is important that you _move through_ the Arcana.
A traditional reading for the major arcana is that they tell the journey of the
Fool (arcana 0) moving through each ascending Tarot in a phyiscal and spiritual
quest to reach/become The World (Arcana 21). Even the minor arcana have
elements of the other suits in their topmost cards, implying that one suit will
lead into the other, like the four seasons.  If you are continually pulling the
same card in a reading, it is usually an indication of some blocked energy
related to the card, with the inability of moving past it representing
a problem you must confront.  The tarot, then, artfully reflects back life.  

Performing rituals like a daily tarot draw can help you remember that _you too_
are an endlessly changing thing, and not some static structure.  Put simply: we
get tired!  And bored, and sad!  We find that our interests have changed, or we
cannot maintain the energy in one position and must destroy our old notions to
act as the soil for the new!  Every ebb and flow is valuable, and yet we often
find ourselves in man-made structures that act against natural cycles.

# Example Vision!

Let's say you live in a town with an awesome, local food co-op.  The values of
this place are important to you, and you want to help them.  With this
organization, they don't define 'actions that need to be done'.  Instead, they
define 'roles that do certain actions'.  You look through the roles, define
what your strengths are, and say that you'd do best in the role of a treasurer.
You apply, they accept, it feels great.

For a while, you do great work as a treasurer and everything as golden as
a ripe, locally-farmed apple. But then, something happens: your day job picks
up, or you meet someone new and want to focus on that relationship, or you find
another group who needs your skills and energy more.  It doens't matter, you
simply find yourself in a place where the time it takes to 'be a treasurer' is
time you no longer have.  But you find that you cannot admit this, even to
yourself.  The whole co-op depends on having a treasurer do their treasurer
job, and you accepted this, and so you will continue to plug away.

As you make this private sacrifice, you find that you are starting to resent
this job.  This resentment starts to bleed into negative feelings toward the
entire co-op.  You start shopping at a national chain grocer, to avoid having
to look at the other co-op members, cos you're angry at them but can't relaly
determine why.

If you're lucky, someone might notice this shift and ask if you want someone to
take over.  Or, even luckier, the co-op has an established ritual of an
election, and you decide to not run again for treasurer.  They find someone
new, but this is not a relief.  Because now you have to train this new person,
and transfer all your skills to them.  There are not community-documented
'treasury rituals'.  Instead, there was a list of responsibilities that you
handled using a personal method and natural instinct.  You can try to teach
these methods, but how do you teach your unique life?  

If you're not lucky, then you are so amazing at what you do that everyone
depends upon you for it.  You cannot transfer ownership of your role, as the
role _equals_ you.  You stoically shoulder this burden, the other co-op members
shoulder their own unique burdens, and you trod numbly into the future to meet
your  welcome decay. 

# The Solarpunk Vision!

What if a group of solarpunks started with the belief that they should move
through the cycles of this group's  own existence.  They recognize that all the
members will have their own peaks and flows, their own summers and winters, for
each task they feel called to do.  

And so: the group writes the rituals of each cycle, each one answering some
group need.  For example: they find that they need a sustainable amount of
money to persist, and so a budget  should be written at the start of the year.
The budget is a ritual: they define when it starts, how long it shoudl take,
the steps and elements of a successful ritual.  Lastly, they define the roles
that would be needed to move through and assist one another in the ritual.
When this is all written, they can then ask the group "We need to do our
budgeting" and people can volunteer to take on a role _within that ritual_.
When it is done, their role is also done.

In this way, nothing is expected except that the group wants to continue to
exist.  No one has a burden except the one they volunteered for, and this
burden contains its own end date.  The administrative acts of a group become
indistinguishable from the traditions of a community--similar to how the
harvesting, canning, and seed storage of a community is both a summer
celebration and the performance of 'admin duties' on your pantries and crops.

# And so: SCUTTLEBUTT!

In these conversations around 'community gardening' and 'scuttlebutt
sustenance', I am seeing a lean towards SSBC as an organization, that needs to
have people step up to take on specific roles.  There is an awesome excitement
about what we stand for, and what we can do, and what makes our community
special.  I also see folks graciously coming forward to volunteer for some
role.   I think the spirit behind this is great, but I want to make sure we are
doing the most sustainable thing _as_ a community, and not some loosely defined
org.  For me, this means rituals that take place in specific times and places
that maintain and feed the values of this group.  SSBC-Grants are a ritual, as
is Contributor Check-ins, Doc assessments, Skillshares, Onboardings,
Pull-Requests and more. 

If this makes sense to y'all, I'd propose keeping a git-ssb repo with different
rituals we can think of for the nurturing, tending, gardening, adminning of
this 'pelago.  We could start by posting what we think are necessary acts here
in this thread.  I could then rewrite these acts as rituals that I store in the
git-ssb and share back.  Or in magical solarpunk terms: This would be the
ritual of meta-dreaming, which requires dreamers and recorders, and lasts for
the length of this convo.  I'd be happy to be a recorder _and_ dreamer for this
act.   

